---
layout: post
title: "Ferry Loading"
modified:
categories: comprog
tags: [dp, c++]
date: 2017-11-04T13:45:30-05:00
---

_The mithycal Ferry Loading problem_. 

This problem caused me a lot of frustration when I began on competitive programming. Not because it
is particularly hard to solve, but because I wasn't able to come up with a solution and I couldn't
wrap my head around solutions of more experienced coders. I decided to revisit it this time.

### Ferry Loading
<a href="https://uva.onlinejudge.org/index.php?option=com_onlinejudge&Itemid=8&page=show_problem&problem=1202" target="_blank">source</a>

We're asked to maximize the number of cars that can be loaded in order onto a ferry with two lanes
and a maximum length. We cannot skip any car in the lane thus having a car in the ferry means that
all cars that appeared in the waiting line before it must have been loaded in to the ferry.

In this particular problem the main issue is coming up with the states we're going to be storing
in the DP table, once that is out the way, everything else is implementation details.

Let \\(L\\) be the maximum lenght the ferry can hold, \\(S_k\\) be the sum of the lengths of all
cars \\(1..k\\), \\(C_i\\) be the length of car \\(i\\) and \\(dp(i,j)\\) be a boolean function
that indicates whether _we can load cars \\(1..i\\) onto the ferry using \\(j\\) centimeters in the
**port** lane_. Thus, our recursive function would start taking form as: 

\\[ dp(i,j) = dp(i - 1, j - C_i) \land (j + C_i <= L) \\]

However, here we're only taking into account the cases in which we are loading a car into the _port_
of the ferry and ignoring the **starboard**. The revised recursive function would become the
following:

\\[ dp(i,j) = [dp(i - 1, j - C_i) \land (j + C_i <= L)] \lor [dp(i - 1, j) \land S_i - j <= L] \\]

Using this revised recursion we're ready to fill our DP table. I chose to do it using a recursive
function and storing the times the **port** is chosen in order to be able to reconstruct the
solution.

As a final observation before coding the solution, since we're not given the number of cars in each 
test case before hand, it is convenient to limit ourselves to processing the first `200`. Given the 
constraints in the statement, we know that it is impossible to load more than that.

{% highlight c++ %}

#include<bits/stdc++.h>
#define MAX_CARS 210

using namespace std;

bool dp[MAX_CARS][MAX_CARS * 3000], seen[MAX_CARS][MAX_CARS * 3000], to_port[MAX_CARS][MAX_CARS * 3000];
int car[MAX_CARS], sum[MAX_CARS], length, n;
pair<int,int> ans;

void fill(int , int);
void output(int , int);

int main(){
  ios::sync_with_stdio(false);
  int T; cin >> T;
  bool line = false;

  while(T--){
    if(line) cout << endl;
    line = true;
    cin >> length;
    length *= 100;
    
    memset(dp, 0, sizeof dp);
    memset(seen, 0, sizeof seen);
    memset(to_port, 0, sizeof to_port);
    fill(car, car + MAX_CARS, 0);
    fill(sum, sum + MAX_CARS, 0);
    n = 0;
    int x;
    while(cin >> x && x){
      if(n <= 200){
        ++n;
        car[n] = x;
        sum[n] = sum[n-1] + x;
      }
    }
    dp[0][0] = true;
    ans = make_pair(0, 0);
    fill(0, 0);
    
    cout << ans.first << endl;
    output(ans.first, ans.second);
  }
  return 0;
}
void fill(int c, int port){
  if(c < n && !seen[c][port]){
    seen[c][port] = true;
    if( port + car[c+1] <= length){
      if(c + 1 > ans.first) ans = make_pair(c + 1, port + car[c+1]);
      dp[c+1][port + car[c+1]] = true;
      to_port[c+1][port + car[c+1]] = true;
      fill(c + 1, port + car[c+1]);
    }
    if(sum[c] - port + car[c+1] <= length){
      if(c + 1 > ans.first) ans = make_pair(c + 1, port);
      dp[c+1][port] = true;
      fill(c+1, port);
    }
  }
}
void output(int c, int port){
  if(c == 0) return;
  output(c - 1, port - (to_port[c][port] ? car[c] : 0));    
  cout << (to_port[c][port] ? "port" : "starboard") << endl;
}

{% endhighlight %}


